- Let me just start by saying,
I have done distributed transactions professionally
and not only were they painful to get right,
they were also extremely hard to manage.
I do understand the desire,
especially in a SOA model,
to drive for distributed transactions,
but this really should be considered a nonstarter
in a microservices architecture.
Traditional systems aimed for transactions
that were ACID compliant.
ACID, or Atomic, Consistent, Isolated,
and Durable, is the concept of making sure
that you have data integrity across multiple tables
in a traditional relational database.
An atomic operation is one that has the properties
of either succeeding completely
or failing completely with no gray area in between.
A consistent operation is one
that guarantees all of the constraints
or data model rules will be enforced.
An isolated operation is one
in which the visibility rules are well-defined,
such that no other transaction can read data
that is not in the correct state.
A durable operation is one that, once completed,
will be guaranteed to be in the datastore permanently
until it is modified in the future.
These properties work beautifully
in a monolithic application
where there is no distribution.
In a SOA model, they become painful.
In a microservices model, they simply don't exist.
In a microservices architecture,
we strive for BASE instead of ACID.
In a BASE model, we strive for eventual consistency
across the highly available distributed platform,
which is the exact use case a microservices architecture
aims to work in.
In this eventual consistency model,
we are not guaranteed immediate, atomic,
or isolated consistent transactions.
Instead, we aim for a situation where,
assuming the data isn't modified again,
we will eventually achieve the end state in all
of the nodes across our distributed datastore.
ACID is, in all honestly, a much easier paradigm
to work in as a developer or an architect.
You know that when you read or write data,
that you are guaranteed of its state
by the underlying datastore.
This guarantee allows you complete control
of how to handle high-throughput systems
where data changes occur often
and must be immediately available.
In a microservices architecture,
you need to identify where you truly need ACID transactions
and wrap service boundaries around those operations.
You cannot leverage any other model
with any real success in this type of architecture,
but before you just go out
and make everything transactional,
and create a system of monoliths,
I urge you to evaluate if you really need ACID transactions.
More often than not, you may find that
what people perceive as a need
for immediacy is instead just an unnatural expectation.
We often expect that users need immediate access
to the data when in reality,
they never view the data immediately
and we can solve the same use case
by directing them to some other place
if they really need to view that data.
Now, as I mentioned, there are times
when you do really need ACID transactions.
Take for a moment a banking system
where debits and credits must occur for,
say, a balance transfer in a single transaction.
In these use cases, you will need
to model your domains and services
to continue to allow these transactions to be atomic,
but there may be other places,
say, applying for a loan,
that already have some level of asynchronous operation.
These can benefit from a form of eventual consistency.
Now, there are ways to design a system
for eventual consistency,
including appropriate role backs
that will help you in this process.
And while we discuss some of the tenets
of those designs,
it really is outside the scope of this course.
There are plenty of good materials online
and other resources available when you're ready
to tackle these problems in the real world.
Aim for eventual consistency in as many places as possible
and it will improve system health as a whole.